.TH DEBOUNCECTL 8 "2026-03-17" "2.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
debouncectl \- control utility for the debounced keyboard debounce daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B debouncectl
.B stop|show|status
.br
.B debouncectl
.B start
.I device
.RI [ timeout ]
.RI [ mode ]
.RI [ pair ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B debouncectl
is the control utility for
.BR debounced (8).
It communicates with the daemon over a Unix domain socket at
.I /run/debounced.sock
to start and stop keyboard processing, query daemon status, and list
available keyboard device nodes.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B stop
Stops all debounce and FlashTap activity, releases the grabbed input
device, and destroys the virtual keyboard. The daemon process remains
running and can be restarted with
.BR start .
.TP
.B show
Lists potential keyboard device nodes under
.I /dev/input/
in a human-readable format, filtered to exclude mice and other
non-keyboard devices. Devices are identified by resolving symlinks in
.I /dev/input/by-id
and
.IR /dev/input/by-path .
Users must be a member of the
.B input
group to use this command without root privileges.
.TP
.B status
Displays the current status of the daemon, including whether it is
actively processing input, the current operating mode, active FlashTap
pairs, and the configured debounce timeout.
.TP
.B start \fIdevice\fR [\fItimeout\fR] [\fImode\fR] [\fIpair\fR]
Instructs the daemon to begin processing input from the specified device
node. See
.B ARGUMENTS
below.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Prints usage information and exits.
.SH ARGUMENTS
The following arguments apply to the
.B start
command only.
.TP
.I device
Path to the keyboard event node to process, e.g.
.IR /dev/input/event0 .
This argument is required and has no default. Use
.B debouncectl show
to identify the correct device node.
.TP
.I timeout
Debounce timeout in milliseconds. Valid range is 1\(en250. Default is
.BR 50 .
A value of
.B 0
disables debounce timing entirely. Has no effect in FlashTap-only mode
.RB ( f ).
.TP
.I mode
Operating mode. One of:
.RS
.TP
.B d
Debounce only (default).
.TP
.B f
FlashTap only.
.TP
.B b
Both debounce and FlashTap.
.RE
.TP
.I pair
FlashTap key pair selection. One of:
.RS
.TP
.B ad
The A and D keys.
.TP
.B arrows
The left and right arrow keys.
.TP
.B both
Both pairs simultaneously.
.TP
.B none
No FlashTap pairs (default for mode
.BR d ).
.RE
.PP
When mode is
.B f
or
.BR b ,
the default pair is
.BR ad .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /run/debounced.sock
Unix domain socket used for communication with
.BR debounced (8).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
The command was ignored because the daemon was already in the requested
state (e.g.
.B start
issued while already running, or
.B stop
issued while already idle), or the daemon could not be contacted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR debounced (8),
.BR uinput (4),
.BR evdev (4)
.SH AUTHORS
Vincent Meadows <giantvince1@protonmail.com>
