.TH DEBOUNCED 8 "2026-03-17" "2.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
debounced \- userspace keyboard debounce daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B debounced
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B debounced
is a daemon that intercepts keyboard input events from a specified
.BR /dev/input/event *
device node, applies per-key debounce filtering and optional FlashTap
processing, and re-emits clean events via a virtual
.BR uinput (4)
keyboard device.
.PP
The daemon is controlled at runtime via
.BR debouncectl (8)
over a Unix domain socket at
.IR /run/debounced.sock .
It does not attach to any keyboard device on startup; a
.B start
command must be issued via
.B debouncectl
before any processing begins.
.PP
.B debounced
requires
.B uinput
kernel support and must be run as root or with sufficient privileges to
open
.B /dev/uinput
and grab input devices via
.BR EVIOCGRAB .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose logging. Prints per-key debounce and FlashTap events to
standard output, which is captured by the journal when running as a
systemd service.
.SH DEBOUNCE
When debounce is active, each key press is passed through immediately.
Key release events are held for the configured timeout period; if the
key is pressed again within that window the pending release is cancelled
and the key remains logically held. This eliminates spurious double
keypresses caused by mechanical switch bounce.
.PP
The debounce timeout is global across all keys and is set at start time
via
.BR debouncectl (8).
.SH FLASHTAP
FlashTap is a directional input feature designed for gaming. When active
on a key pair, pressing the second key of the pair while the first is
held will immediately release the first key and activate the second,
eliminating the mechanical deadband between releasing one directional
key and pressing the other.
.PP
FlashTap operates on post-debounce events, meaning bounce suppression
applies independently per key before FlashTap state is evaluated.
.PP
Two key pairs are supported:
.TP
.B ad
The A and D keys (keycodes 30 and 32).
.TP
.B arrows
The left and right arrow keys (keycodes 105 and 106).
.SH OPERATING MODES
.TP
.B d
Debounce only. FlashTap is disabled regardless of pair selection.
.TP
.B f
FlashTap only. Debounce is disabled; events pass through to FlashTap
processing immediately.
.TP
.B b
Both debounce and FlashTap are active. FlashTap operates on
post-debounce events.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /run/debounced.sock
Unix domain socket used for communication with
.BR debouncectl (8).
.TP
.I /dev/uinput
Kernel virtual input device interface used to create the virtual
keyboard.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/debounced.service
systemd service unit file.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Releases the grabbed input device, destroys the virtual keyboard, and
exits cleanly.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR debouncectl (8),
.BR uinput (4),
.BR evdev (4)
.SH AUTHORS
Vincent Meadows <giantvince1@protonmail.com>
